List the contents of a directory and their attributes
ls

Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc…
ls -la

Display the size of the file in human readable format
-h or --h

Show all files and folders including hidden one
ls -la

list directories recursively
ls -R

Sort the files by size with largest at the top
du -a | sort -nr

Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.
ls -lt

Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.
whereis lpr or which fluidpoint

Which command is used to switch directory from one to another
mv

List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment
printenv or env

Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?
prints all the env variables set in the linux including /user/bin/env

Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?
echo

 Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console
 env or prientenv

Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?
yes

Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?
no

Display your currently logged in user
whoami

how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?
su- will switch into root where as su- <user> switch into perticular user

Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?
unset <variable name>

How do you reboot the system?
sudo reboot

How do you shutdown the system?
switch into root user then "/sbin/shutdown -r now"

Display all the major running processes in the system
ps -aux

Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?
user name of the process, owner name, cpu loads, the starting time of the process cmd that initiate the process etc....

Display the name of the system kernel
uname -a (all) -v (version)

display the kernel release number
uname -r

display teh machine type of the current kernel
uname -m, OR --machine 

Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on
uname -or

Display all info that uname command can show.
uname will dispaly the type of OS that we are runing the CMD

Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to
pwd

change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.
cd

Go up one directory
cd <dir name>

Return to last directory
cd ..

change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory 
cd

How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)
history

In which file the history of commands are stored in?
/home/myuser/.bash_history

How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?
echo $HISTSIZE 
vi ~/.bash_profile
export HISTSIZE=500

How can you modify bash's history behaviour
by editing the .bash_profile

Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.
history cmd is used to see all the cmds that we run till now 
!<cmd nuber>

What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?
Bourne shell (sh):- 
Korn shell (ksh)
Bourne Again shell (bash)
POSIX shell (sh)

What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?
login shell:- If you open a shell or terminal (or switch to one), and it asks you to log in (Username? Password?) before it gives you a prompt, it's a login shell.
non-login shell:- If it doesn't (like gnome-terminal), and lets you use it straight away, it's a non-login shell.

How do we start login shell and non-login shell?
Log in as a user, edit your .bash_profile. Add a variable called MYFULLNAME as follows:

MYFULLNAME="kk"

Save the file and logout.

Now login again.

Type the following at the prompt:

echo $MYFULLNAME
What happens? Why?

Now type bash again. In the new shell that open type the following:

echo $MYFULLNAME
What happens? Why?

Start another "bash" shell

In it type;

echo $MYFULLNAME
What happens? Why?

Edit your .bashrc, adding this:

MY_FAV_MOVIE="Finding Nemo"
Save the file and log out, log in again then type the following at your prompt:

echo $MY_FAV_MOVIE
echo $MYFULLNAME
                        
What happens? Why?

Type bash;

echo $MY_FAV_MOVIE
echo $MYFULLNAME
                        
What happens? Why?

Type bash;

echo $MY_FAV_MOVIE
echo $MYFULLNAME
                        
What happens? Why?

Can you explain what is happening in these examples and why?

Exit back to your original prompt.

non-login:- Search Results
Featured snippet from the web
A Non login shell is started by a program without a login. In this case, the program just passes the name of the shell executable. For example, for a Bash shell it will be simply bash.


What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?
need to add .bash_profile with new user details then we can able to login in with new user which we have created recentlly

What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?
the name it self says it is a non-login shell which doent require any user 
